All right.
So remember we said there were two phases
when it came to the execution context
within the JavaScript engine.
The first phase was the creation phase
when it set up the variables and
functions and memory.
And the second phase,
is the execution phase.
And this phase is pretty
simple to understand.
In the execution phase we already have all
those things set up that we had before.
And now it runs your code,
the code you've written,
line by line, interpreting it,
converting it, compiling it,
executing it on the computer into
something the computer can understand.
And it runs your code line by line.
So if I go back to our example
that we used for hoisting, and
I console.log(a) here.
And I'll just go ahead and
move the function to the top so
we're using good practice,
so we don't have confusion.
I have a function, and I call it.
I'm logging a.
I'm setting a equal to a value and
declaring it, and I'm logging a again.
So, what do you think we're going to see?
B will be called, then a will be logged,
and a will be logged again.
We're gonna see three lines because
console.log is also called.
So what are the three lines?
What's the line here?
What are we gonna see here?
And what are we going to see here?
All right.
Let's go ahead and run this refresh.
Did you get it right?
Called the function.
The first time it called a,
it got undefined, and
the second time it got Hello World.
Why?
Because now we're in the execution phase,
so in the creation
phase we set up this function and var
a was set up and set equal to undefined.
And now it begins to execute code.
So, line five is executed,
and it runs that function.
Line seven is executed, and
it outputs the value of a to the console.
And since a was set to undefined in
the creation phase, that's what we see.
And it executes line nine and
sets the value in memory of
a to the string Hello World!
And then, in line 11, it once
again outputs the value of a in memory
to the console which is now Hello World.
So it just executed these
things line by line.
And we understand between these
two phases, the creation phase and
the execution phase, now,
why we see what we see and
why JavaScript behaves the way it does.